# Public Humanities Blog Post

This week's readings gave voice to a series of tensions that I have felt embedded in my relationship to the public humanities and digital humanities. Since beginning graduate school, these are fields, methods, and skills that I have been encouraged to pursue, as they are critical to presenting oneself as a viable candidate on the job market. Yet, I have also been warned not to let such pursuits distract from making progress on my dissertation. This framing has meant that developing such skills is a process that has to occur outside of the normal timelines of dissertation progress, almost as a set of extracurricular activities. But, as this week’s readings have illustrated, understanding the realities of open source information is vital for all graduate students and, more crucially, this ad-hoc approach to teaching digital skills is reifying existing inequalities within academia. 

I appreciated Robyn Schroeder’s recognition of the labor that is required to develop publicly-engaged work, whether this be through developing digital skills or working to design co-constructed public humanities projects. Having space in the “normative” timeline for progression as a graduate student to take on this work is something that I wish existed more broadly. Of course, as Schroeder also notes, this pursuit of legitimation or “fieldification” also threatens to disrupt the more radical potential of digital and public humanities as sites for rethinking the role of the university in its community. 