This is Marius, I will share here the thoughts on the articles for this week.
McGrath 2019: an article I found interesting because I'm an avid podcast listener, but it never occurred to me that podcasts could be employed to mark the ever-changing surroundings.
Risam: the article is a stark example of how white culture can be oppressive, and there was a point that struck me: first of all, the fact that the author felt to have been "socialized" in not being able to code. This is poignant, as it marks the fact that oppression does not need a direct or specific act, it simply needs a conniving environment.
Corbett 2016: accessibility was the topic of our discussion in the last lesson, and I was glad to witness how things were progressing in the field of academic dissertations. I had a direct experience with this topic, since I was unable (and still am) unable to access a PhD dissertation on the internet that I believed was relevant for my research. I also think I will make good use of the portals NDLTD and OATD.
Tagliaferri: I am acquainted with the vernacular expansion from reading Alison Cornish's book on the same subject, and the parallel with technology is indeed interesting. From the opportunities point of view, the fact that X-ray microtomography scans and computational algorithms were being used in the humanities field made me think of a recent news, where technology has been used to bring to light 2 new pages in Anne Frank's diary.
Schroeder: I found that the article was a compelling history of the Public Humanities field. There were several key points I found remarkable: the need to configure public humanities as the reception of humanities (then culture?) by anyone but academics, plus the focus on reflection, dialogue and engagement. I believe a point had been mistaken/overlooked: the assumption that humanists, unlike STEMs, "serve a moral and social rather than individual or commercial purpose"; in fact humanists can easily do both things, as it is wrong to believe, as the majority of Italian politicians still do, that "con la cultura non si mangia". Statistics demonstrate how there's a direct proportion between the level of education/reading index and the financial well-being of a nation's citizens. I am also curious about the consideration that "the public humanities are not so much a field of study but a great experiment".