#Jan 26

The Public Humanities 

The very personal nature of Risam's article resonated with me, because while not a person of color, I can empathize with some, if not all, of the barriers to coding. I appreciate her framing the discussion in the context of the Torn Apart/Separados projects, because she provides a window into the experience of just jumping in and trying to figure 'it' out. Actually, she resonates hard because she describes some of my own thoughts ("How do I get the code into a thingy"? for one among many. Also, did she really need to use it as an excuse to watch Marvel "yes, including Thor".) She made me laugh and be inspired. Seriously, though, I return to the quandary she presents - the double and triple binds of computational ethic studies. Critically, she made me aware of these issues in the field, so that I can move forward in this space with more awareness of the barriers faced by my peers and help institute change in the moments in which that's within my power. 

I know Corbett's article is really a sidenote to this, but I just want to add, they also resonated with me because I actually worked with ETDs in the Graduate Shool of my alma mater, Univ of North TX, one of the big Tier 1 institutions in TX. The libraries are absolutely outstanding... but they did nothing with ETDs except file them at the time (we were working on more collab). So as the part-time assistant to the severely overworked Grad Reader for the NTX System, I was constantly fielding concerns and questions about Proquest (always looking to make a buck), copyright (which Proquest paperwork tries to make you think you need to pay to be copyrighted). That's all. Hopefully the phenomenal library system has been able to take more of a role so my counterpart is not having bad ETD dreams. 

McGrath's post made me put 2+2 together that Digi Hum is not just coding. I mean, I knew that?? But maybe coding is such a forward face to the 'discipline'. The discussion of polyvocality also touches on some of the questions I'm thinking about in my own work right now in Cultural Heritage and Preservation Studies (CHAPS). I've been really thinking about the tensions between expert voices and local voices, a debate which is central to CHAPS concerns. I can't even begin to get into it here, but that does bring me to Shroeders's article. I realize last week that I 'stepped into it' a bit when I was asked to introduce myself and my thoughts on Digi Hum. I mentioned the tension bewteen the ideas of "fieldification" and inter/trans-disciplinarity. I know I was directly translating from Public Humanities, but I think it's a legit question to ask of Digi Hum. And buried within that tension of "fieldification" and the inter/trans-disciplinarity is ultimately a deep tension regarding expertise. That's just my quick gloss on it. And this really leads me to think about Risam's article again. There's always a question that I think should be in the back of mind, and that is who is allowed or not allowed to participate, collaborate, share their voice, etc.? Something can look polyvocal, but is it? Are there barriers that we're just not seeing? Just thoughts. 

Which leads me to Tagliaferri's article. As someone who is thinking in terms of vernacular, although viusally, as up against 'formal' understandings of cultural heritage (again - who gets to decide?) I love the parallel take on this of language, vernacular and open source as driving inclusion. So yes, barriers are always going to exist (keep them in mind), but the potential is there.  Also, super fascinated now by Caterina da Siena!
